# Maintainers' Guide

## Release Checklist

* Check if any critical pending bugs or issues are to be included
* _Documentation_:

    * Update the README if needed.
    * Make sure haddock docs are consistent with the changes in the release

* _Benchmarks_:

    * Check regressions from previous release
    * Check comparative benchmarks using streaming-benchmarks

* _Update Package Metadata:_

    * Update `stack.yaml` to latest stable resolver, cleanup extra-deps
    * Make sure the description in cabal file is in sync with README and other docs
    * Make sure CI configs include last three major releases of GHC in CI testing.
    * Update `tested-with` field
    * Make sure all dependency bounds can use latest versions

* _Update changelog & Version_:

    * Change the `Unreleased` section at the top of changelog file to the new
      release version number.
    * Make sure all the bug fixes being included in this release are marked
      with a target release on github. So that users can search by release if
      they want.
    * Bump the package version in cabal file or package.yaml

* _Upload_:

    * Wait for final CI tests to pass:

        * Create a git tag corresponding to the release where X.Y.Z is the new
          package version (`git tag vX.Y.Z && git push -f origin v.X.Y.Z`).
        * Mask out the build status lines from the README
        * Upload to hackage (`stack upload .`)
        * Add to stackage (`build-constraints.yaml` in Stackage repo) if needed
        * Optionally upload `package-X.Y.Z-sdist.tar.gz` to github release page
            * Update release contributors on github release page
              (`git shortlog -s prev_tag..new_tag | sed $'s/^[0-9 \t]*/* /' | sort -f`)
        * Update and if needed release streaming-benchmarks package
        * Check https://matrix.hackage.haskell.org/package/streamly
        * Check haddocks on Hackage, upload if not built
        * Announce to haskell-cafe@haskell.org

## Managing Changes

### User Impacting Changes

__RULE__ Any commit that may affect the end user in some way MUST have either a
changelog entry OR MUST have an issue marked with one of the following labels
OR both.  We can have more than one of these labels on the same issue e.g.
breaking, enhancement:

* breaking
* deprecating
* enhancement
* performance
* documentation
* bug

Note that if you are making a big feature change you may have a single issue
for that feature and attach many commits with it. So you do not necessarily
need to have an issue for each commit.

### Maintenance Changes

Commits that do not impact the end user in any way are not required to have a
changelog entry or an issue.  Issues that do not have a corresponding commit
may be left without a label but preferably should be marked with one of the
following:

* invalid
* question
* wontfix
* maintenance

### Planning and Tracking Changes

For planning purposes, open issues may be marked with milestones or target
releases.  However, it may not always be known which release a fix will finally
land in.  For example, we may decide to make a minor release instead of a major
one if there are no breaking changes yet, so we may not always know what would
be the next release version.

Trackability means that we should be able to find which issues got fixed in
which release. Or what all issues got fixed in a particular release. We track
significant changes using the changelog. However, there may be more changes
that can only be tracked via issues, PRs or commits.  When we make a release we
can mark all the issues fixed in that release with a correct release target for
future trackability.

For better trackability of which issue got fixed in which release we need the
following:

* Before you close an issue make sure a commit or a PR fixing the issue is
  attached with it. In the commit message you can reference an issue like
  "fixes #50", you can do the same in a PR as well.
* Before we make a new release EVERY issue with a commit included in that
  release that affects the end user, especially bugs and breaking changes MUST
  have the target release correctly set.

### Changelog Management

Keep the unreleased changes in the `Unreleased` section at the top of changelog
file.  Using `Unreleased` instead of the next release number for unreleased
changes is important. First, we do not know the next release number in advance,
it could be a major or minor release.  Second, if we use the next release
number instead, then when adding a new change to the changelog, at one look we
cannot know whether the release number on top is unreleased or released.

## TODO

* GPG signed releases and tags
